Add `splitTestsCompilation` solidity setting (11): closing PR (#8138)
NomicFoundation/hardhat: PLUGIN_MIGRATION_GUIDE.md

The resolved value is available at `hre.config.solidity.splitTestsCompilation`.

## Build System (`hre.solidity`)

### `scope: "tests"` is rejected when `splitTestsCompilation` is `false`

When `splitTestsCompilation` is `false`, tests are compiled together with contracts under `scope: "contracts"`. Using `scope: "tests"` is a logic error and throws a `HardhatError` with descriptor `SOLIDITY.SPLIT_TESTS_COMPILATION_DISABLED` in the following APIs:

- `hre.solidity.getRootFilePaths({ scope: "tests" })`
- `hre.solidity.build(rootFiles, { scope: "tests" })`
- `hre.solidity.getCompilationJobs(rootFiles, { scope: "tests" })`
- `hre.solidity.emitArtifacts(compilationJob, compilerOutput, { scope: "tests" })`
- `hre.solidity.cleanupArtifacts(rootFiles, { scope: "tests" })`

**Exception:** `hre.solidity.getArtifactsDirectory("tests")` does **not** throw. It returns the main artifacts path (same as `"contracts"`), since it is a read-only query with no side effects.

### `getRootFilePaths({ scope: "contracts" })`

When `splitTestsCompilation` is `false`, this returns **all** build roots — contract roots, test roots, and npm roots — together.

> When `splitTestsCompilation` is `true`, it returns contract roots only (unchanged).

Reviewer: The way this is phrased makes it sound like when `splitTestsCompilation` is `true`, npm roots are not returned, which isn’t the case.

```suggestion
When `splitTestsCompilation` is `false`, this returns **all** build roots — contract roots, test roots, and npm roots — together.

When `splitTestsCompilation` is `true`, it returns contract roots and npm roots only (unchanged).
```

| `files` + compatible flag (e.g. contract files + `--no-tests`) | Partial build of the provided files. No cleanup. No `artifacts.d.ts` regeneration. No `onCleanupArtifacts`.        |
| `files` + incompatible flag (e.g. test files + `--no-tests`)   | Throws `HardhatError` with descriptor `SOLIDITY.INCOMPATIBLE_FILES_WITH_BUILD_FLAGS`.                              |

**Important:** `--no-tests` and `--no-contracts` behave as synthetic partial builds when `splitTestsCompilation` is `false`. This is different from `splitTestsCompilation: true`, where `--no-tests` runs a full contracts build with cleanup. Plugins that depend on cleanup running after `--no-tests` should account for this.

### When `splitTestsCompilation` is `true`

Current two-pass behavior is preserved. `--no-tests` and `--no-contracts` each skip one full pass with cleanup.

### Return value

Both modes return:

```typescript
{
  contractRootPaths: string[];
  testRootPaths: string[];
}
```

The arrays reflect the roots actually built, partitioned using `getScope()`.

### Plugin pattern for calling `build`

> If your plugin calls `build` and previously passed `noTests: true`, update it to branch on the config. When `splitTestsCompilation` is `false` there is no cheap "contracts-only" pass to fall back to — skipping tests would require an extra partial build — so the flag is only meaningful in split mode:

Reviewer: I think this explanation is a bit confusing. Claude suggestion is something like:

```suggestion
If your plugin calls `build` with `noTests: true`, update it to branch on the config. In unified mode (`splitTestsCompilation: false`), passing `noTests: true` turns the build into a partial build — cleanup and `artifacts.d.ts` regeneration are skipped. Since tests are compiled in the same pass as contracts anyway, there is no performance benefit to excluding them, and the plugin loses full-build semantics it likely depends on.
```
